Many people feel that it takes blind faith
to believe in God.
They say that they only believe
in what they can see.
And often what they see is human suffering.
God, they cannot see.
‘If God is real,’ they ask,
‘why do bad things happen to good people?’
Does believing in God
make a person gullible or naive?
At Hebrews 11:1, the Bible says:
“Faith is . . .
the evident demonstration of realities
that are not seen.”
“The evident demonstration of”
God’s existence
is all around us.
Some of it we can see,
and some of it we can’t.
For example, our sun emits ultraviolet rays.
How are we protected
from their harmful effects?
Our earth has a protective shield
—a layer of ozone gas that filters out
most of the harmful radiation.
If the radiation increases,
so does the protective ozone.
It’s reasonable to ask:
Is there an intelligence
behind the earth’s processes
and the things we observe in nature?
At Hebrews 3:4,
the Bible says:
“Every house is constructed by someone,
“but the one who constructed
all things is God.”
Where there is design,
there is a designer.
That makes sense.
Wouldn’t that same logic
apply to our complex earth?
Even if you can accept
the possibility of a Creator,
you might wonder,
‘How do we explain suffering?’
If you see a house in ruins,
would you conclude that it had no builder?
Or could there be
a more plausible explanation?
Why deny God’s existence
because of suffering?
Instead, let your questions
lead to further investigation.
To learn more about what the Bible says
on this and many other topics,
go to jw.org.